# Abstract
Metropolis light transport algorithm is a kind of unbiased Markov Chain Monte Carlo Global illumination algorithm. This algorithm has the advantages of high efficiency and robustness in the scene of complicated illumination. While sampling, after the Metropolis light transport algorithms find an efficient light path, the algorithm can fast generate other efficient paths by mutating in a small area and multiplexing the already known paths, to reduce the random noise from the complicated illumination scene. Metropolis sampling judge the acceptance or the rejection of the proposed samples by the result of acceptance probability, and step by step find the paths which have higher contribution values and more efficiently generate images. Therefore, the selection of the mutation strategy and the calculation of the acceptance probability can work well on the quality of the image generated by Metropolis light transport.
Based on the influential factors mentioned above, this paper brings forward two improved Metropolis light transport algorithms. One proposed method is based on improved acceptance probability. This algorithm combines the acceptance part to improve Metropolis light transport by using several acceptance probability functions to zoom the contribution to the scalar function of the acceptance probability function. The advantage is while satisfy the detail balance condition，it can also partly improve the acceptance probability of the proposed sample and reduces the random noise of the generated images. The experimental results show that there's less noise in the generated images of the improved algorithms compared with other algorithms while rendering the same image in the same time. Another proposed method is based on sampling distribution to improve the Metropolis light transport algorithm. This algorithm divide the sampling process into two stages, first periodly calculating the matrix similarity of the sampling number to decide the starting point of the second stage, and remember the first stage's sampling distributed matrix to influence the second stage's mutation strategy. The second stage's mutation strategy proportionally samples the 8 neighboring pixels of the current sampling point. While satisfying the condition of the detail balance, set the ratio of the several sampling points' scalar contribution function as acceptance probability, which would solve the problem of plenty random noise in the complex illumination scenes. The experiment shows the improved method could self-adaptively generate images with less noise in the same rendering time compared with other algorithms.
   At last we conclude the passage and put forward some future works depending on some questions.
Key Words: Metropolis light transport; acceptance probability; sampling distribution; global illumination; Markov Chain Monte Carlo 


